# Boat-Sales-Analysis
## Project Summary
### As a data analysist for a yacht and boat, The marketing team has tasked me determining how listings generate a lot of views. They would like to use my results for their newsletter to help show clients ways to set up their listing to generate more views which could lead to more offers for the boat. Some potential questions for this analysis include: 
### What are the prices of boats with the most views?
### What are the locations of the most viewed boats?
### Do the most viewed boats have any common features?

## Data 
The data was sourced from [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/karthikbhandary2/boat-sales)

## Resolution
### The first thing that needed to be done was the dataset needed to be cleaned due to the high amount of entries missing data fields they were removed leaving us with 6001 entries, next data entires with zip codes and cities in the country tab were changed to their country of origin to keep the data consistent. Next I explored the data to find any relationships between the size of the boat in each listing with number views each listing had. As well as with the price of the boat and the year the boat was built. To show these relationships I first created a subset of data and then used the subset to create a subplot and heat map in python. With the information from looking at these visualizations I came up with my first theories about the what generated views for listings. The number of views is affected by price, The older a boat is the more views it generates, The material the boat is made from can affect the number of views. Next using a geofile and the dataset I created a visualization of the number of listings in each country. I discovered that most views were in Europe with Germany and Italy having the most listings. Next I used supervised machine learning models to test if the size of the boat was the key factor for the price of the boat. After running the tests I found that this size had little affect on the price. Next Unsupervised machine learning models were used to see the strength of the relationship between the boats price and the number of views for a listing and found that the relationship was there but it was weak which showed me that there were many factors besides price that affect the number of viewers. After testing the relationships of the data it was found that more data was needed to be used to continue testing my final theory that there are many factors besides the size and price of the boat in each listing that affect how many views each listing will generate.
